# hummingbird

----
#### Commercial use without the permission of the software authors (Cory Dunn and Bala Ani Akpinar) is forbidden. Academic use is permitted, with citation of the following work:

#### _C.D. Dunn, B.A. Akpınar, and V. Sharma. An unusual amino acid substitution within the hummingbird cytochrome c oxidase alters a key proton-conducting channel. bioRxiv. doi: 10.1101/610915._
----

**General Information**

**binary-table-by-edges-v2.2.py (latest)** – Generates a binary table that maps the presence or absence of mutations on the edges of a phylogenetic tree. Dependencies: Bio.SeqIO and Bio.Phylo

**binary-table-by-edges-v3.1.py (latest)** – Generates a binary table that maps the presence or absence of mutations on the edges of a phylogenetic tree; also adds a species convention if specified. Dependencies: Bio.SeqIO and Bio.Phylo

**add-convention-to-binarytable-v1.1.py** – Adds a species convention to the binary table generated by binary-table-by-edges-v2.1.py. Dependency: Bio.SeqIO

**extract-position-values_species_and_nodes-v1.1.py** – Extracts all amino acid values for all positions in a given alignment. Dependency: Bio.SeqIO

**report-on-F-values-v1.1.py** – Depending on the query, which can be a list of edge pairs or a binary table, provides information on fluctuating edges in terms of amino acid changes. 

Please refer to source code of each package to get more information.

**Usage**

Use "--help" or "-h" flags to get usage information for each script. All scripts are written in Python 2.7.

Contact Bala Ani Akpinar (@aniakpinar) for code-related issues and Cory Dunn (@corydunnlab) for more general inquiries.
